I wanted to tell this story to preserve the knowledge I've gained through a quarter of an hour. It started when I was troubled by some application, named **`drawio`**. The application is amazingly beautiful but when I installed its package on my Ubuntu machine, I witnessed that when the application is running, the icon for the process is not configured correctly. 
After first round of searching, I began to realize that an important attribute is needed in application's `.desktop` file. I was already familiar with the `.desktop` `toml` encoded files for building desktop executable shortcuts to launch custom commands or applications. Never have I ever search through the system to find those files that are related to my installed applications. Finally I found `drawio.desktop` file inside **`/usr/share/applications/`** directory, alongside all other application's `.desktop` files. 
Shockingly after reading the `drawio.desktop` file, I realized that Icon attribute of the application was correctly configured and I could find the exact icon files inside **`/usr/share/icons/`** directory. What was wrong then? Even `StartupWMClass` attribute was present inside `drawio.desktop` as described in helping articles across internet. To keep the story short, I found that a missing dot within the value of the `StartupWMClass` attribute was the root cause of the my problem. I found out the `VM_Class` of the application was not `drawio`, it was **`draw.io`** and I found it by opening `xprop WM_CLASS` command and then clicking on the application window. It reported the configured `WM_Class` name for the application and finally I fixed the problem.